Juyin Chen
Prof. Chuang
CISC 3140
Assignment #4- Individual Reflection


In this assignment, we are in the group of 20 people finally decided to do a Netflix-like product. We expect the end product of our team will be a subscription-based video/media streaming service which users can browse a library of films and television programs through our app/website by paying monthly subscription fee. Our group reach consensus on designing Netflix-like because online streaming services have become very popular. Majority of the group members are interested in Netflix style, and we are all curious to know how have media streaming service been designed and how the entire processes go through within a large team based.

Before our deliverable on doing Netflix-like, some of our group member did mention about designing a retail-based service or an eCommerce Platforms such as Amazon, ebay, etc. However, we found out another group is doing that also so that we switch our idea to Netflix like product, which everyone agrees with. 

Our team dynamics is to is to build a subscription video on demand streaming service like Netflix with the enormous database of cartoons and films. Users gain access to an unlimited content by paying a monthly fee. Our platform will be available to use at different operating systems, browsers and devices so that will be more convenient for our users. We will also implement recommendation algorithm to offer subscribers new TV shows and films according to their preferences;  

We decided to split our team into 4 sub-teams since there are four components in the assignment. with five people in each group. I am in the group of user profile page, our group contain four other people: Aswin, Asma, Tomasz, and Ashley. Our group is responsible in designing a user profile page, which is one of the most critical part in this media streaming platform because a well profile page provides an opportunity for people to know each other. The general outline that Tomasz wrote for use’s profile page includes user info/bio, user settings/preferences, user profile picture, recently watched/resume watching list, favorites list, and watch later list.  However, we did not get a chance to discuss how to split the role and responsibility within our group, and we decide to do that within this week. 

We are currently using slack and google doc as our main communication tools. Slack is cloud-based instant messaging tool which allows to keep all communication in one app. So far slack helps our team collaborate and coordinate our work really well. Different subgroups have their own channel to discuss without being interrupted. Meanwhile we merge our group writings and documents in google doc because everyone can easily access and modify the file if they get some new ideas. 

This is the first time I ever worked in a group of 20 people which gave a different experience. I feel like I am not alone because everyone in the group are collaborating to commit a common goal. In my perspective, working in a large team have both pros and cons. One of the biggest advantages is role division. A large team allows us to split the workload into many small pieces which can improve productivity and create a better workflow. Working in a large team enhance collaboration and brainstorming. Everyone may have different ideas and thoughts to share within the group. The productivity would improve as more ideas are developed. Group members compensate for each other's weaknesses and share broad perspectives which can utilize the collective experience of everyone. Meanwhile, the cons side of team works seems inevitable especially working in a large team. Some of us are worrying about communication and coordination issues, like how we should fairly diffuse the responsibility among the group, and we were thinking about some conflict or mistrust between team members since the semester just began and we don’t really get a chance know each other well and have no idea what is the work style of each one. I believe it takes some time for all of us to adapt the environment of working in a large group and get to know each other well. 

Overall, it is amazing experience in my life. It is a good opportunity for me to get used to working in a team environment. Through this experience, I am able to think about how to be a good team player, which is essential for my further career. At the meantime, we will further think more about how to structure our team well to accomplish our goal.
